Post/db sequence training poutyne (#133)
dot-layer/blog: content/blog/2020-08-19-train-a-sequence-model-with-poutyne/index.en.md

            "Province": 4,
            "PostalCode": 5,
            "Orientation": 6,
            "GeneralDelivery": 7
        }

    def vectorize(self, data):  # We vectorize inplace
        for idx, item in enumerate(data):
            data[idx] = self._item_vectorizing(item)

    def _item_vectorizing(self, item):
        address = item[0]
        address_vector = self.embedding_vectorizer(address)

        tags = item[1]
        idx_tags = self._convert_tags_to_idx(tags)

        return address_vector, idx_tags

    def _convert_tags_to_idx(self, tags):
        idx_tags = []
        for tag in tags:
            idx_tags.append(self.tags_set[tag])
        return idx_tags

dataset_vectorizer = DatasetVectorizer(embedding_vectorizer)
```  

Now, let's vectorize (in place) our dataset.

```python
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(train_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(valid_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(test_data)
```

### DataLoader
> We use a first trick, ``padding``.

Now, since all the addresses are not of the same size, it is impossible to batch them together since all tensor elements must have the same lengths. But there is a trick, padding!

> The idea is simple. We add *empty* tokens at the end of each sequence up to the longest one in a batch. For the word vectors, we add vectors of 0 as padding. For the tag indices, we pad with -100s. We do so because of the [cross-entropy loss](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html#torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss), the accuracy metric and the [F1 metric](https://poutyne.org/metrics.html#poutyne.framework.metrics.FBeta) all ignore targets with values of -100.

Author: true that

optimizer = optim.SGD(full_network.parameters(), lr)
```

### Poutyne Experiment
> Disclaimer that I'm a dev on Poutyne, so I will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).

Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automatically logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set
the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training.

```python
exp = Experiment("./", full_network, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
```

Using our experiment, we can now launch the training as simple as

```python
exp.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```
It will take around 6 minutes per epochs, so around an hour for the complete training.

### Results
The next figure presents the loss and the accuracy during training (blue) and during validation (orange).
After 10 epochs, we obtain a validation loss and accuracy of `0.01981` and `99.54701` respectively, which is pretty
good for a first model. Also, we can see that our model did not seem to have overfitted.
![loss_acc](graph/training_graph.png)

## Bigger model

> It seems like our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a
> bidirectional approach (bi-LSTM). What it mean, is instead of _simply_ using a seeing the sequence from the start to the end, let's
> also train the model to see the sequence from the end to the start, but it's important to state that the two direction are
> not shared, that mean taht we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time but we gather both the information for the 
> fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both direction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It seems like our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a
bidirectional approach (bi-LSTM). What it mean, is instead of _simply_ using a seeing the sequence from the start to the end, we
also train the model to see the sequence from the end to the start. It's important to state that the two directions are
not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time but we gather both the information for the 
fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both direction.
```

Also, instead of using only one layer, let's use a LSTM, which mean that we use two layers of hidden state.

So, let's create the new LSTM and fully connected network.

```python
dimension = 300
num_layer = 2
bidirectional = True

lstm_network = nn.LSTM(input_size=dimension,
                       hidden_size=dimension,
                       num_layers=num_layer,
                       bidirectional=bidirectional,
                       batch_first=True)

input_dim = dimension * 2 #since bidirectional

fully_connected_network = nn.Linear(input_dim, tag_dimension)

full_network_bi_lstm = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)
```
 
### Training
 
 ```python
exp_bi_lstm = Experiment("./", full_network_bi_lstm, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
exp_bi_lstm.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```

### Results

> Here the last epoch validation results of the larger model. On the validation dataset,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is the last epoch validation results of the larger model. On the validation dataset,
```

We can see similar results as the validation one for both the model. Also, we still see a little improvement of the accuracy and the loss for the larger model. But when considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can
argue that it's only a matter of the seed. For testing our approach's robustness, we could use retrain multiple times
our training step but using every time a different seed. Using those trained models, we can report the mean and one standard variation of the metrics instead of a single training. But instead of doing that, let's try something else. 

#### Zero Shot Evaluation
Since we have to our disposition other country address, let's see if our model has really learned a typical address sequence
or he has simply learned all the cases (know as memorization).

We will test three different cases

    - the first one we will test if our model performs well on countries using the exact same 
    address structure as our training dataset: United-States of America (US) and United-Kingdom (UK)
    - the second one we will test if our model performs well on a country using the exact same address structure **but** 
    using a totally different language: Russia (RU)

>     - the last one will test if our model performs well on a country using a different address structure **and** a different language: Mexico (MX).

Reviewer: It seems that the bullet points do not appear in the markdown. I think the spaces before them should be removed.

Author: cf90662

For each, we will have a total dataset of `100,000` examples, and we will use the last and best epoch results (the 10th). 
Also, we will use the same pre-processing steps (i.e. data vectorization, the same pad collate function), but we will only apply
a test phase.

But first, let's download and vectorize all the needed datasets.

``` python
download_data('./data/', "us")
download_data('./data/', "gb")
download_data('./data/', "ru")
download_data('./data/', "mx")

us_data = pickle.load(open("./data/us.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
gb_data = pickle.load(open("./data/gb.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
ru_data = pickle.load(open("./data/ru.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
mx_data = pickle.load(open("./data/mx.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples

dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(us_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(gb_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(ru_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(mx_data)
```

##### First Test

> Now let's tests for the United-States of America and United-Kingdom.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now let's test for the United-States of America and United-Kingdom.
```

possible data in the world. This approach was used by [Libpostal](https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal) which trained a 
CRF over an impressive near `100` million address (yes, **100 million**). The data is publicly available if you want to explore this avenue next.

We also explored that the language has a negative impact on the results since we use monolingual word embeddings (i.e. French), 
which is *normal* considering that they were trained for a specific language. A possible solution to that problem is the use of subword embedding composed of sub-division of a word instead of the complete one. For example, a two characters window embeddings of `H1A1` would be the aggregate embeddings of the subword `H1`, `1A` and `A1`. 

> Alert of self-promotion of my work here
I've personally explored this avenue in an article about the use of [subword embedding for address parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.16152).  

> That been said, our model still performed well on the Canadian dataset, and one can simply train simpler LSTM model using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That being said, our model still performed well on the Canadian dataset, and one can simply train simpler LSTM model using
```

---
title: Train a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) with Poutyne
author: David Beauchemin
date: '2020-08-18'
slug: machine learning
type: post
categories: ["python", "machine learning"]
tags: []
description: "Address tagging with a RNN"
featured: "OpenLayer_YoutubeBanner.jpg"
featuredpath: "img/headers/"
---

> In this article, we will train an RNN, or more precisely, an LSTM, to predict the sequence of tags associated with a 
given address, known as parsing address. 

> Also, the code (only) is available in [this Google Colab Jupyter notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dot-layer/blog/blob/post%2Fdb_sequence_training_poutyne/content/blog/2020-08-19-train-a-sequence-model-with-poutyne/article_notebook.ipynb#scrollTo=c1JxpCRsQN0e).

> > Before starting this article, I would like to disclaim that this tutorial is greatly inspired by the one I did for Poutyne.

Author: 26e53b0

> Also, the content is base on a recent article I wrote with Marouane Yassine. But, one can find a difference between the 

Author: eb81657

> two other content, I've tried to put more insight for the less technical readers than in the previous two.

Author: b255b60

> Sequential data, such as an address, are data that we assume are conditional to the previously known information. For example, 

Author: Tout à fait, j'ai mal formulé ma phrase.

when writing an address, we know, in Canada, that after the civic number (e.g. 420), we have the street name (e.g. du Lac).

> That means that if we know the sequence's structure, we can predict the following information. Various modelling approaches have been proposed to make predictions over sequential data. Still, more recently, deep learning models known as Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) has been introduced for this type of data.

Author: Définitivement plus dosé et approprié.

> Training an RNN requires various tricks (padding and packing) that we will explore in this article. First, let's 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main purpose of this article is to discuss the various tricks (e.g., padding and packing) that are required for training an RNN. Before we do that, let us define our "address" problem more formally and elaborate on what RNNs (and LSTMs) actually are.
```

state our problem, and later on, we will discuss what an actual RNN or LSTM is.

## Address Tagging

> Address tagging is the task of detecting, by tagging, the different parts of an address such as the civic number, 

Reviewer 2: Je pense qu'on "identifie" (dans le sens de mettre un identifiant) en taggant et qu'on détecte en "utilisant une méthode de détection". J'irais donc plus avec : 
```suggestion
Address tagging is the task of detecting and tagging the different parts of an address such as the civic number, 
```

the street name or the postal code (or zip code). The following figure shows an example of such a tagging.

![address parsing canada](address_parsing.png)

> Since addresses are written in a predetermined sequence, RNN is the best way to crack this problem. But to decode the output of the RNN, we also need another component, a fully-connected layer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since addresses are written in a predetermined sequence, RNN is the best way to crack this problem. However, to decode the output of the RNN, we also need another component, a fully-connected layer. 
```

> So, our architecture, we will be composed of an RNN and a fully-connected layer. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our architecture will therefore consist of an RNN and a fully-connected layer. 
```

## RNN
Speaking of RNN, what is it?

> In brief, RNN is neural networks where connections between nodes form a temporal sequence. It means that this type of networks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In brief, RNN is a neural network in which connections between nodes form a temporal sequence. It means that this type of network
```

> allow previous outputs to be used as inputs of the previous information 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
allows previous outputs to be used as inputs for the next prediction
```

([For more about RNN](https://stanford.edu/~shervine/teaching/cs-230/cheatsheet-recurrent-neural-networks)). 

> But, instead of using a vanilla RNN, we use a variant of it, know as a long short-term memory (LSTM) that is known to have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the present purpose, we do not use the vanilla RNN, but a variant of it known as long short-term memory (LSTM) network. This latter, which involves components called gates, is often preferred over its competitors due to its better stability with respect to gradient update (vanishing and exploding gradient).
```

better stability with gradient update (vanishing and exploding gradient) by using gates 

> ([to learn more about LSTM](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/)). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
([to learn more about LSTMs](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/)). 
```

> Also, for now, let's simply use a single layer unidirectional LSTM. We will, later on, explore the use of more layers and bidirectional approach. 

Reviewer 2: Ce serait bien d'avoir une phrase du genre : LSTMs can be uni- or bidirectional. We'll explain that concept later. For now, let us consider the most simple ones, unidirectional LSTMs. Tho j'ai pas lu la suite donc je suis pas certain que ça fit avec le texte.

Author: Je le dit plus tard effectivement.

between the word `king` and `queen` is gender. So logically, if we remove the vector corresponding to `male` to the one for `king`, and then add the vector for
`female`, we should obtain the vector corresponding to `queen`. That being said, those kind of representation usually are in dimension `300`, which
makes it impossible for humans to reason about them. Still, the idea is there but in a larger dimension space.

So our LSTM's input and hidden state dimensions will be of the same size as the vectors of embedded words. 
For the present purpose, we will use the
[French pre trained](https://fasttext.cc/docs/en/crawl-vectors.html) fastText embeddings of dimension `300`. 

### The Pytorch Model

Let us first import all the required packages.

```python
import os
import pickle

import fasttext
import fasttext.util
import requests
import torch
import torch.nn as nn
import torch.optim as optim
from poutyne import set_seeds
from poutyne.framework import Experiment
from torch.nn.functional import cross_entropy
from torch.nn.utils.rnn import pad_packed_sequence, pack_padded_sequence, pad_sequence
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
```

> Now, let's create a single (i.e. one layer) unidirectional LSTM wit `input_size` and `hidden_size` of `300`. We 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's create a single (i.e. one layer) unidirectional LSTM with `input_size` and `hidden_size` of `300`. We 
```

will explore later on the effect of stacking more layers and of using a bidirectional approach.

> See [here](https://discuss.pytorch.org/t/could-someone-explain-batch-first-true-in-lstm/15402) the explanation why we use the `batch_first` argument.

```python
dimension = 300
num_layer = 1
bidirectional = False

lstm_network = nn.LSTM(input_size=dimension,
                       hidden_size=dimension,
                       num_layers=num_layer,
                       bidirectional=bidirectional,
                       batch_first=True)
```

## Fully-connected Layer

> Since the output of the LSTM network is of `300`, we will use a fully-connected layer to map this large dimension space into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the output of the LSTM network is of dimension `300`, we will use a fully-connected layer to map this large dimension space into
```

> Since the output of the LSTM network is of dimension `300`, we will use a fully-connected layer to map this large dimension space into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the output of the LSTM network is of dimension `300`, we will use a fully-connected layer to map it into
```

> a smaller one equal to the tag space (e.g. number of tags to predict (8)). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a smaller one of dimension equal to that of the tag space (i.e. number of tags to predict), that is 8. 
```

> a smaller one of dimension equal to that of the tag space (i.e. number of tags to predict), that is 8. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a space of equal dimension to that of the tag space (i.e. number of tags to predict), that is 8. 
```

> But, since we want to predict the most probable tokens, we will use the softmax function 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, since we want to predict the most probable tokens, we will apply the softmax function on this layer
```

(see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Softmax_function) if softmax does not ring a bell).

```python
input_dim = dimension #the output of the LSTM
tag_dimension = 8

fully_connected_network = nn.Linear(input_dim, tag_dimension)
```

## Training Constants

> Now, let's set our training constants. We first have the CUDA device used for training (using a CPU is way too long, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's set our training constants. We first specify a CUDA (GPU) device for training (using a CPU is way too long, 
```

if you don't have one, you can use a Google Colab notebook). 

Secondly, we set the batch size (i.e. the number of elements to see before updating the model), the learning rate for the optimizer
and the number of epochs.

```python
device = torch.device("cuda:0")

batch_size = 128
lr = 0.1

epoch_number = 10
```

> We also need to set Pythons's, NumPy's and PyTorch's seeds using Poutyne function so that our training is (almost) reproducible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also need to set Pythons's, NumPy's and PyTorch's seeds using the Poutyne function so that our training is (almost) reproducible.
```

> See [here](https://determined.ai/blog/reproducibility-in-ml/) for more explanation of why setting seed does not guarantee reproducibility.

```python
set_seeds(42)
```

## The Dataset
The dataset consists of `1,010,987` complete French and English Canadian address and their associated address components tags.

> Here an example `("420 rue des Lilas Ouest, Québec, G1V 2V3", [StreetNumber, StreetName, StreetName, StreetName, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example `("420 rue des Lilas Ouest, Québec, G1V 2V3", [StreetNumber, StreetName, StreetName, StreetName, 
```

Orientation, City, PostalCode, PostalCode])`.

> Now let's download our dataset; for simplicity, the data was already split into an 80-20 train, valid and a `100,000` test set. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's download our dataset; for simplicity, the data was already split into an 80-20 train-valid and a `100,000` test set. 
```

> Also, the dataset is pickled for simplicity (using a Python `list`). Here is the code to download it.

Reviewer 2: pas trop certain que ca fasse du sens mon edit.
```suggestion
Also note that the dataset was pickled for simplicity (using a Python `list`). Here is the code to download it.
```

```python
def download_data(saving_dir, data_type):
    """
    Function to download the dataset using data_type to specify if we want the train, valid or test.
    """

    # hardcoded url to download the pickled dataset
    root_url = "https://dot-layer.github.io/blog-external-assets/train_rnn/{}.p"

    url = root_url.format(data_type)
    r = requests.get(url)
    os.makedirs(saving_dir, exist_ok=True)

    open(os.path.join(saving_dir, f"{data_type}.p"), 'wb').write(r.content)
    
download_data('./data/', "train")
download_data('./data/', "valid")
download_data('./data/', "test")
```

Now let's load in memory the data.

```python
# load the data

train_data = pickle.load(open("./data/train.p", "rb"))  # 728,789 examples
valid_data = pickle.load(open("./data/valid.p", "rb"))  # 182,198 examples
test_data = pickle.load(open("./data/test.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
```

> As we explained before, the dataset is a list of `728,789` tuples where the first element is the full address, and the second is a list of the tag (the ground truth).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we explained before, the (train) dataset is a list of `728,789` tuples where the first element is the full address, and the second is a list of the tag (the ground truth).
```

```python
train_data[0:2]
```

> (the output)

![data_snapshot](data_snapshot.png)

### Vectorize the Dataset

> Since we used word embeddings as our encoded representation of the word, we need to *convert* the address into word vector, for that, we will use a vectorizer. This embedding vectorizer will extract for every word the embedding value using the pre-trained French fastText model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we used word embeddings as our encoded representation of the words, we need to *convert* the address into word vector. In order to do that, we will use a vectorizer. This embedding vectorizer will extract, for each word, the embedding value based on the pre-trained French fastText model.
```

```python
class EmbeddingVectorizer:
    def __init__(self):
        """
        Embedding vectorizer
        """
        fasttext.util.download_model('fr', if_exists='ignore')
        self.embedding_model = fasttext.load_model("./cc.fr.300.bin")

    def __call__(self, address):
        """
        Convert address to embedding vectors
        :param address: The address to convert
        :return: The embeddings vectors
        """
        embeddings = []
        for word in address.split():
            embeddings.append(self.embedding_model[word])
        return embeddings
     
embedding_vectorizer = EmbeddingVectorizer()
```

> We also need to apply a similar approach but for the address tag (e.g. StreeNumber, StreetName). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We also need to apply a similar operation to the address tags (e.g. StreeNumber, StreetName). 
```

> This vectorizer needs to convert the tag into categorical values (e.g. 0, 1). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This time, however, the vectorizer needs to convert the tags into categorical values (e.g. 0, 1). 
```

> For simplicity, we will use a `DatasetVectorizer` class that will apply the vectorizing process using both 

Reviewer 2: Je dois avouer que j'ai un peu de difficulté à suivre les vectorizing/vectorize process.

Author: Ok je vais revoir le texte.

the embedding and the address vectorize process.

```python
class DatasetVectorizer:
    def __init__(self, embedding_vectorizer):
        self.embedding_vectorizer = embedding_vectorizer
        self.tags_set = {
            "StreetNumber": 0,
            "StreetName": 1,
            "Unit": 2,
            "Municipality": 3,
            "Province": 4,
            "PostalCode": 5,
            "Orientation": 6,
            "GeneralDelivery": 7
        }

    def vectorize(self, data):  # We vectorize inplace
        for idx, item in enumerate(data):
            data[idx] = self._item_vectorizing(item)

    def _item_vectorizing(self, item):
        address = item[0]
        address_vector = self.embedding_vectorizer(address)

        tags = item[1]
        idx_tags = self._convert_tags_to_idx(tags)

        return address_vector, idx_tags

    def _convert_tags_to_idx(self, tags):
        idx_tags = []
        for tag in tags:
            idx_tags.append(self.tags_set[tag])
        return idx_tags

dataset_vectorizer = DatasetVectorizer(embedding_vectorizer)
```  

> Now, let's vectorize (in place) our dataset.

Reviewer 2: Je suis trop newb pour savoir ce que "in place" signifie.

Author: Je l'ai retirer n'apporte rien.

```python
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(train_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(valid_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(test_data)
```

### DataLoader
> We use a first trick, ``padding``.

> Now, since all the addresses are not of the same size, it is impossible to batch them together since all tensor elements must have the same lengths. But there is a trick, padding!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, since the addresses are not all of the same size, it is impossible to batch them together; recall that all tensor elements must have the same lengths. But there is a trick, padding!
```

> The idea is simple. We add *empty* tokens at the end of each sequence up to the longest one in a batch. For the word vectors, we add vectors of 0 as padding. For the tag indices, we pad with -100s. We do so because of the [cross-entropy loss](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html#torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss) and the accuracy metric all ignore targets with values of -100.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The idea is simple. We add *empty* tokens at the end of each sequence up to the longest one in a batch. For the word vectors, we add vectors of 0 as padding. For the tag indices, we pad with -100's. We do so because the [cross-entropy loss](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html#torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss) and the accuracy metric both ignore targets with values of -100.
```

> To do this padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, that process will be done. One thing to consider, since we pad the sequence, we need each sequence's lengths to unpad them in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pad and pack sequences).

Reviewer 2: Watch out ici je me trust pas.
```suggestion
To do this padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, that process will be done. One thing to keep in mind when treating padded sequences is that their (original) length will be required to unpad them later on, in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pad and pack sequences).
```

Reviewer 2: Tu dis : That way, we can pad and pack [...]
Est-ce que le truc que tu décris juste avant (pad - unpad), c'est ça le pad and pack?

Author: typo c'est unpack.

    """

    # This gets us two lists of tensors and a list of integer. 
    # Each tensor in the first list is a sequence of word vectors.
    # Each tensor in the second list is a sequence of tag indices.
    # The list of integer consist of the lengths of the sequences in order.
    sequences_vectors, sequences_labels, lengths = zip(*[
        (torch.FloatTensor(seq_vectors), torch.LongTensor(labels), len(seq_vectors)) 
         for (seq_vectors, labels) in sorted(batch, key=lambda x: len(x[0]), reverse=True)
    ])

    lengths = torch.LongTensor(lengths)

    padded_sequences_vectors = pad_sequence(sequences_vectors, batch_first=True, padding_value=0)

    padded_sequences_labels = pad_sequence(sequences_labels, batch_first=True, padding_value=-100)

    return (padded_sequences_vectors, lengths), padded_sequences_labels
```

```python
train_loader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=batch_size, shuffle=True, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
valid_loader = DataLoader(valid_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
```

## Full Network
> We use a second trick, ``packing``.

> Since our sequences are of variable lengths and we want to be the most efficient possible by packing them, we cannot use the [PyTorch `nn.Sequential`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Sequential.html) class to define our model, so we define the forward pass for it to pack and unpack the sequences (again, you can read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pad and pack sequences).

Reviewer 2: Encore une fois, il se peut que j'aie changé le sens sans m'en rendre compte ici..
```suggestion
Since our sequences are of variable lengths and that we want to be as efficient as possible when packing them, we cannot use the [PyTorch `nn.Sequential`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Sequential.html) class to define our model. Instead, we define the forward pass so that it packs and unpacks the sequences (again, you can read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pad and pack sequences).
```

```python
class FullNetWork(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, lstm_network, fully_connected_network):
        super().__init__()
        self.hidden_state = None
        
        self.lstm_network = lstm_network
        self.fully_connected_network = fully_connected_network
        
    def forward(self, padded_sequences_vectors, lengths):
        """
            Defines the computation performed at every call.
        """
        total_length = padded_sequences_vectors.shape[1]
        pack_padded_sequences_vectors = pack_padded_sequence(padded_sequences_vectors, lengths, batch_first=True)

        lstm_out, self.hidden_state = self.lstm_network(pack_padded_sequences_vectors)
        lstm_out, _ = pad_packed_sequence(lstm_out, batch_first=True, total_length=total_length)

        tag_space = self.fully_connected_network(lstm_out)
        return tag_space.transpose(-1, 1) # we need to transpose since it's a sequence

full_network = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)
```

## Summary

> So we have created an LSTM network (`lstm_network`), a fully connected network (`fully_connected_network`), those two 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So we have created an LSTM network (`lstm_network`) and a fully connected network (`fully_connected_network`), and we use both
```

> components are used in the full network. This full network used padded, packed sequences (defined in the forward pass), 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
components in the full network. The full network makes use of padded, packed sequences (defined in the forward pass), 
```

> so we created the `pad_collate_fn` function to process the needed work. The DataLoader will conduct that process. Finally, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so we created the `pad_collate_fn` function to process the necessary work. The DataLoader will conduct that process. Finally, 
```

> when we load the data, this will be done using the vectorizer, so the address will be represented using word embeddings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we will load the data using the vectorizer. This means that the addresses will be represented by word embeddings. 
```

Also, the address components will be converted into categorical value (from 0 to 7).

## The Training

> Now that we have all the components for the network let's define our Stochastic Gradient Descent 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have all the components for the network, let's define our Stochastic Gradient Descent 
```

([SGD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_gradient_descent)) optimizer.

```python
optimizer = optim.SGD(full_network.parameters(), lr)
```

### Poutyne Experiment
> Disclaimer that I'm a dev on Poutyne, so I will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).

Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automatically logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set
the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training.

```python
exp = Experiment("./", full_network, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
```

Using our experiment, we can now launch the training as simple as

```python
exp.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```
It will take around 6 minutes per epochs, so around an hour for the complete training.

### Results

> The next figure presents the loss and the accuracy during training (blue) and during validation (orange).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next figure shows the loss and the accuracy during training (blue) and during validation (orange).
```

After 10 epochs, we obtain a validation loss and accuracy of `0.01981` and `99.54701` respectively, which is pretty
good for a first model. Also, we can see that our model did not seem to have overfitted.

![loss_acc](graph/training_graph.png)

## Bigger model

It seems like our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a

> bidirectional approach (bi-LSTM). What it means is instead of _simply_ using a seeing the sequence from the start to the end, we

Reviewer 2: Il a un autre truc qui cloche ici
```suggestion
bidirectional approach (bi-LSTM). What it means is that instead of _simply_ using a seeing the sequence from the start to the end, we
```

also train the model to see the sequence from the end to the start. It's important to state that the two directions are

> not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather both the information for the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather the information from both directions for the 
```

> not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather the information from both directions for the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather the information from both directions into the 
```

> fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both direction.

Reviewer 2: Un peu redondant avec ma modifs précédente I must say. Sorry. 
```suggestion
fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both directions.
```

> Instead of using only one layer, let's use an LSTM, which means that we use two layers of hidden state.

Reviewer 2: Ne venons-nous pas justement d'utiliser un LSTM? On veut dire "bi-LSTM" ici? ou "two-layer LSTM"?

Author: oui un typo

So, let's create the new LSTM and fully connected network.

```python
dimension = 300
num_layer = 2
bidirectional = True

lstm_network = nn.LSTM(input_size=dimension,
                       hidden_size=dimension,
                       num_layers=num_layer,
                       bidirectional=bidirectional,
                       batch_first=True)

input_dim = dimension * 2 #since bidirectional

fully_connected_network = nn.Linear(input_dim, tag_dimension)

full_network_bi_lstm = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)
```
 
### Training
 
```python
exp_bi_lstm = Experiment("./", full_network_bi_lstm, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
exp_bi_lstm.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```

### Results

> Here are the last epoch validation results of the larger model. On the validation dataset,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are the validation results for the last epoch of the larger model. On the validation dataset,
```

we can see that we obtain a marginal gain of around `0.3` for the accuracy over the previous one. Not much of an improvement.

|   Model  | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:--------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |    0.0050          |
| Accuracy |    99.8594         |

> But now that we have our two trained models, let's use the test set as a final an **unique** steps of evaluating the performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But now that we have our two trained models, let's use the test set as a final and **unique** step for evaluating their performance.
```

```python
exp.test(test_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(test_loader)
```

> The next table presents the results of the Bi-LSTM with two layers and the previous model (LSTM with one layer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next table presents the results of the bi-LSTM with two layers and the previous model (LSTM with one layer).
```

|   Model  | LSTM one layer | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:--------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |     0.0152     |    **0.0050**      |
| Accuracy |     99.5758    |    **99.8550**     |

> We can see similar results as the validation one for both the model. Also, we still see a little improvement of the accuracy and the loss for the larger model. But when considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We see similar validation results for both the model. Also, we still see a little improvement in accuracy and total loss for the larger model. Considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can
```

> argue that it's only a matter of the seed. To test our approach's robustness, we could use retrain multiple times

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
argue that it's only a matter of random seed. To test the robustness of our approach, we could train our model multiple times
```

> our training step but using a different seed every time. Using those trained models, we can report the mean and one standard variation of the metrics instead of a single training. But instead of doing that, let's try something else. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using a different seeds and report the mean and standard deviation of the metrics over all experiments rather than the result of a single training. Let's try something else. 
```

---
title: Train a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) with Poutyne
author: David Beauchemin et Marouane Yassine
date: '2020-08-18'
slug: machine learning
type: post
categories: ["python", "machine learning"]
tags: []
description: "Address tagging with a RNN"

> featured: "OpenLayer_YoutubeBanner.jpg"

Author: ```suggestion
featured: "we-mastered-the-art-of-programming-cover.jpeg"
```

Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automatically logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set
the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training.

```python
exp = Experiment("./", full_network, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
```

Using our experiment, we can now launch the training as simple as

```python
exp.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```
It will take around 6 minutes per epochs, so around an hour for the complete training.

### Results
The next figure shows the loss and the accuracy during training (blue) and during validation (orange).
After 10 epochs, we obtain a validation loss and accuracy of `0.01981` and `99.54701` respectively, which is pretty
good for a first model. Also, we can see that our model did not seem to have overfitted.

![loss_acc](graph/training_graph.png)

## Bigger model

It seems like our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a

> bidirectional approach (bi-LSTM). What it means is that instead of _simply_ using a seeing the sequence from the start to the end, we

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bidirectional approach (bi-LSTM). What it means is that instead of _simply_ viewing the sequence from the start to the end, we
```

```
 
### Training
 
```python
exp_bi_lstm = Experiment("./", full_network_bi_lstm, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
exp_bi_lstm.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```

### Results
Here are the validation results for the last epoch of the larger model. On the validation dataset,
we can see that we obtain a marginal gain of around `0.3` for the accuracy over the previous one. Not much of an improvement.

|   Model  | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:--------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |    0.0050          |
| Accuracy |    99.8594         |

But now that we have our two trained models, let's use the test set as a final and **unique** step for evaluating their performance.

```python
exp.test(test_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(test_loader)
```

The next table presents the results of the bi-LSTM with two layers and the previous model (LSTM with one layer).

|   Model  | LSTM one layer | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:--------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |     0.0152     |    **0.0050**      |
| Accuracy |     99.5758    |    **99.8550**     |

> We see similar validation results for both the model. Also, we still see a little improvement in accuracy and total loss for the larger model. Considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We see similar validation results for both models. Also, we still see a little improvement in accuracy and total loss for the larger model. Considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can
```

argue that it's only a matter of seed. To test the robustness of our approach, we could train our model multiple times

> using a different seeds and report the mean and standard deviation of each metric over all experiments rather than the result of a single training. Let's try something else. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using different seeds and report the mean and standard deviation of each metric over all experiments rather than the result of a single training. Let's try something else. 
```

#### Zero Shot Evaluation

> Since we have to our disposition other country address, let's see if our model has really learned a typical address sequence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we have at our disposition other country addresses, let's see if our model has really learned a typical address sequence
```

> or he has simply learned all the cases (know as memorization).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or if it has simply learned all the cases (know as memorization).
```

> We will test three different cases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will test our model on three different types of datasets
```

>    - the first one we will test if our model performs well on countries using the exact same 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - first, we will test if our model performs well on countries using the exact same 
```

>     address structure as our training dataset: United-States of America (US) and United-Kingdom (UK)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    address structure as our training dataset: United States of America (US) and United-Kingdom (UK)
```

>    - the second one we will test if our model performs well on a country using the exact same address structure **but** 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - second, we will test if our model performs well on a country using the exact same address structure **but** 
```

>     using a totally different language: Russia (RU)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    written in a totally different language: addresses from Russia (RU)
```

>    - the last one will test if our model performs well on a country using a different address structure **and** a different language: Mexico (MX).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - finally, on addresses that exhibit a different structure **and** a written in a different language: addresses from Mexico (MX).
```

> For each, we will have a total dataset of `100,000` examples, and we will use the last and best epoch results (the 10th). 

Reviewer 2: (careful)
```suggestion
For each test, we will use a dataset of `100,000` examples in total, and we will use the results from the last epochs, which were always the best. 
```

> Also, we will use the same pre-processing steps (i.e. data vectorization, the same pad collate function), but we will only apply

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Also, we will use the same pre-processing steps as before (i.e. data vectorization, the same pad collate function), but we will only apply
```

a test phase.

> But first, let's download and vectorize all the needed datasets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, let's download and vectorize all the needed datasets.
```

```python
download_data('./data/', "us")
download_data('./data/', "gb")
download_data('./data/', "ru")
download_data('./data/', "mx")

us_data = pickle.load(open("./data/us.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
gb_data = pickle.load(open("./data/gb.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
ru_data = pickle.load(open("./data/ru.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
mx_data = pickle.load(open("./data/mx.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples

dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(us_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(gb_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(ru_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(mx_data)
```

##### First Test

> Now let's test for the United-States of America and United-Kingdom.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's test for the United States of America and United-Kingdom.
```

```python
us_loader = DataLoader(us_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(us_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(us_loader)

gb_loader = DataLoader(gb_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(gb_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(gb_loader)
```

> The next table presents the results of both the model for both the country. We first see that we obtain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next table presents the results of both models for both countries. We obtain
```

> better results for the two countries using the BLSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that even if the structure is similar. Also, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
better results for the two countries using the bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that, considering that their structures are similar. Also, the
```

```python
def download_data(saving_dir, data_type):
    """
    Function to download the dataset using data_type to specify if we want the train, valid or test.
    """

    # hardcoded url to download the pickled dataset
    root_url = "https://dot-layer.github.io/blog-external-assets/train_rnn/{}.p"

    url = root_url.format(data_type)
    r = requests.get(url)
    os.makedirs(saving_dir, exist_ok=True)

    open(os.path.join(saving_dir, f"{data_type}.p"), 'wb').write(r.content)

download_data('./data/', "train")
download_data('./data/', "valid")
download_data('./data/', "test")
```

Now let's load the data in memory.

```python
# load the data
train_data = pickle.load(open("./data/train.p", "rb"))  # 728,789 examples
valid_data = pickle.load(open("./data/valid.p", "rb"))  # 182,198 examples
test_data = pickle.load(open("./data/test.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
```

As explained before, the (train) dataset is a list of `728,789` tuples where the first element is the full address, and the second is a list of tags (the ground truth).

```python
train_data[:2] # The first two train items
```

> (the output)

![data_snapshot](data_snapshot.png)

### Vectorize the Dataset

> Since we used word embeddings as the encoded representations of the words in the addresses, we need to *convert* the addresses into the corresponding word vectors. In order to do that, we will use a `vectorizer` (i.e. the process of converting words into vectors). This embedding vectorizer will extract, for each word, the embedding value based on the pre-trained French fastText model.

Reviewer 3: All my concerns about embeddings vs corpus languages are solved except here. I would simply specify French embeddings are used because it is the most prominent language in the dataset used.

```suggestion
Since we used word embeddings as the encoded representations of the words in the addresses, we need to *convert* the addresses into the corresponding word vectors. In order to do that, we will use a `vectorizer` (i.e. the process of converting words into vectors). This embedding vectorizer will extract, for each word, the embedding value based on the pre-trained French fastText model. We use French embeddings because French is the language in which most of the adresses in our dataset are written.
```

> > If you hare curious about another solution, the [Google Colab Jupyter notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dot-layer/blog/blob/post%2Fdb_sequence_training_poutyne/content/blog/2020-08-19-train-a-sequence-model-with-poutyne/article_notebook_colab.ipynb) uses Magnitude.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> If you are curious about another solution, the [Google Colab Jupyter notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dot-layer/blog/blob/post%2Fdb_sequence_training_poutyne/content/blog/2020-08-19-train-a-sequence-model-with-poutyne/article_notebook_colab.ipynb) uses Magnitude.
```

```

## Summary

We have created an LSTM network (`lstm_network`) and a fully connected network (`fully_connected_network`), and we use both
components in the full network. The full network makes use of padded-packed sequences, 
so we created the `pad_collate_fn` function to do the necessary work within the `DataLoader`. Finally, 
we will load the data using the vectorizer (within the `DataLoader` using the `pad_collate` function). This means that the addresses will be represented by word embeddings. 
Also, the address components will be converted into categorical value (from 0 to 7).

## The Training

Now that we have all the components for the network, let's define our optimizer (Stochastic Gradient Descent) 
([SGD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_gradient_descent)).

```python
optimizer = optim.SGD(full_network.parameters(), lr)
```

### Poutyne Experiment
> Disclaimer: David is a developer on the Poutyne library, so we will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).

Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automated logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set

> the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training. The accuracy is compute word-tag, meaning that every correct tag prediction is a good prediction. For example, the accuracy of the prediction `StreetNumber, StreetName` with the ground truth `StreetNumber, StreetName` is 1 and the accuracy of the prediction `StreetNumber, StreetNumber` with the ground truth `StreetNumber, StreetName` is 0.5.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training. The accuracy is computed on the word-tag level, meaning that every correct tag prediction is a good prediction. For example, the accuracy of the prediction `StreetNumber, StreetName` with the ground truth `StreetNumber, StreetName` is 1 and the accuracy of the prediction `StreetNumber, StreetNumber` with the ground truth `StreetNumber, StreetName` is 0.5.
```

a test phase, meaning no training step.

First, let's download and vectorize all the needed datasets.

```python
download_data('./data/', "us")
download_data('./data/', "gb")
download_data('./data/', "ru")
download_data('./data/', "mx")

us_data = pickle.load(open("./data/us.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
gb_data = pickle.load(open("./data/gb.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
ru_data = pickle.load(open("./data/ru.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
mx_data = pickle.load(open("./data/mx.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples

dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(us_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(gb_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(ru_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(mx_data)
```

##### First Test

Now let's test for the United States of America and United Kingdom.

```python
us_loader = DataLoader(us_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(us_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(us_loader)

gb_loader = DataLoader(gb_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(gb_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(gb_loader)
```

The next table presents the results of both models for both countries. We obtain

> better results for the two countries using the bidirectional bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that, considering address structures are similar to those in the training dataset (Canada), we obtain near as good results as those observed during training. This suggests that our model seems to have learned to recognize the structure of an address. Also, despite the language being the same as in the training dataset (i.e. some English address in the bilingual canadian address dataset), we obtain poorer results. That situation is most likely due to the fact that the postal code formats are not the same. For the US, it is 5 digits, and for the UK it is similar to that of Canada, but it is not always a letter followed by a number and not always 6 characters. It is *normal* for a model to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
better results for the two countries using the bidirectional bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that, considering address structures are similar to those in the training dataset (Canada), we obtain near as good results as those observed during training. This suggests that our model seems to have learned to recognize the structure of an address. Also, despite the language being the same as in the training dataset (i.e. some English addresses in the bilingual canadian address dataset), we obtain poorer results. That situation is most likely due to the fact that the postal code formats are not the same. For the US, it is 5 digits, and for the UK it is similar to that of Canada, but it is not always a letter followed by a number and not always 6 characters. It is *normal* for a model to
```

have difficulty when faced with new patterns. All in all, we can say that our model has achieved good results.

| Model (Country) | LSTM one layer | Bidirectional bi-LSTM |
|:---------------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|    Loss (US)    |     0.6176     |       **0.3078**   |
|  Accuracy (US)  |     84.7396    |       **91.8220**  |
|    Loss (UK)    |     0.4368     |       **0.1571**   |
|  Accuracy (UK)  |     86.2543    |       **95.6840**  |

##### The Second and Third Test

Now let's test for Russia and Mexico. 

> But first, let's discuss how our French embeddings can generate word vectors for vocabulary in a different language. FastText use subword embeddings when complete embeddings do not exist. For example, we can assume the presence of a word embedding vector for the word `Roi`, but we face an out-of-vocabulary (OOV) for the word `H1A1` since this word is not a real word. The trick with fastText is that they create compose embeddings using the subword with fixed window size (length of the subword) when facing OOV word. For example, a two characters window embeddings of `H1A1` would be the aggregated embeddings of the subword `H1`, `1A` and `A1`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But first, let's discuss how our French embeddings can generate word vectors for vocabulary in a different language. FastText uses subword embeddings when complete embeddings do not exist. For example, we can assume the presence of a word embedding vector for the word `Roi`, but we face an out-of-vocabulary (OOV) for the word `H1A1` since this word is not a real word. The trick with fastText is that it creates composite embeddings using the subword with fixed window size (length of the subword) when facing OOV words. For example, a two characters window embeddings of `H1A1` would be the aggregated embeddings of the subword `H1`, `1A` and `A1`. 
```

---

> title: Train a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) with Poutyne

Reviewer 4: *ing in titles: http://www.davidnicholson.it/language/on-ing-forms-in-titles.html 
```suggestion
title: Training a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) with Poutyne
```

> author: David Beauchemin et Marouane Yassine

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
author: David Beauchemin and Marouane Yassine
```

date: '2020-08-18'
slug: machine learning
type: post
categories: ["python", "machine learning"]
tags: []

> description: "Address tagging with a RNN"

Reviewer 4: could be more specific for SEO if this is the meta description.

Author: SEO?

Reviewer: Search Engine Optimization. So that it is higher in Google's results.

given address, known as parsing address. 

> Also, the article is available in a [Google Colab Jupyter notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/github/dot-layer/blog/blob/post%2Fdb_sequence_training_poutyne/content/blog/2020-08-19-train-a-sequence-model-with-poutyne/article_notebook.ipynb#scrollTo=c1JxpCRsQN0e).

> Before starting this article, we would like to disclaim that this tutorial is greatly inspired by a online tutorial David created for Poutyne framework. Also, the content is based on a recent article we wrote about address tagging. However, there are differences between the present work and the two others, we've tried to put more insights for the less technical reader in this one.

Sequential data, such as addresses, are pieces of information that are deliberately given in a specific order. In other words, they are sequences with a particular structure; and knowing this structure is crucial for predicting the missing entries of a given truncated sequence. For example, 
when writing an address, we know, in Canada, that after the civic number (e.g. 420), we have the street name (e.g. du Lac).

> Hence, if one was asked to complete an address containing only a number, he could reasonably assume that the next information that should be added to the sequence is a street name. Various modelling approaches have been proposed to make predictions over sequential data. Still, more recently, deep learning models known as Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) have been introduced for this type of data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hence, if one is asked to complete an address containing only a number, he can reasonably assume that the next information that should be added to the sequence is a street name. Various modelling approaches have been proposed to make predictions over sequential data. Still, more recently, deep learning models known as Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) have been introduced for this type of data.
```

the street name or the postal code (or zip code). The following figure shows an example of such a tagging.

![address parsing canada](address_parsing.png)

Since addresses are written in a predetermined sequence, RNN is the best way to crack this problem. However, to decode the output of the RNN, we also need another component, a fully-connected layer. 
Our architecture will therefore consist of an RNN and a fully-connected layer. 

## RNN
Speaking of RNN, what is it?

In brief, RNN is a neural network in which connections between nodes form a temporal sequence. It means that this type of network
allows previous outputs to be used as inputs for the next prediction
([for more about RNN](https://stanford.edu/~shervine/teaching/cs-230/cheatsheet-recurrent-neural-networks)). 

For the present purpose, we do not use the vanilla RNN, but a variant of it known as long short-term memory (LSTM) network. This latter, which involves components called gates, is often preferred over its competitors due to its better stability with respect to gradient update (vanishing and exploding gradient)
([to learn more about LSTMs](http://colah.github.io/posts/2015-08-Understanding-LSTMs/)). 

> Also, for now, let's simply use a single layer unidirectional LSTM. We will, later on, explore the use of more layers and bidirectional approach. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For now, let's simply use a single layer unidirectional LSTM. We will, later on, explore the use of more layers and a bidirectional approach. 
```

### Word Embeddings

Since our data is text, we will use a well-known text encoding technique, word embeddings. Word embeddings are vector
representations of words. The main hypothesis underlying their use is that there exists a linear relation between words. For example, the linear relation
between the word `king` and `queen` is gender. So logically, if we remove the vector corresponding to `male` to the one for `king`, and then add the vector for

> `female`, we should obtain the vector corresponding to `queen`. That being said, those kind of representation usually are in dimension `300`, which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`female`, we should obtain the vector corresponding to `queen` (`king - male + female = queen`). That being said, those kinds of representation usually are in dimension `300`, which
```

makes it impossible for humans to reason about them. Still, the idea is there but in a larger dimension space.

> So our LSTM's input and hidden state dimensions will be of the same size as the vectors of embedded words. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So our LSTM's input and hidden state dimensions will be of the same sizes as the vectors of embedded words. 
```

For the present purpose, we will use the
[French pre trained](https://fasttext.cc/docs/en/crawl-vectors.html) fastText embeddings of dimension `300`. 

### The Pytorch Model

> Let us first import all the required packages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let us first import all the necessary packages.
```

import torch.nn as nn
import torch.optim as optim
from poutyne import set_seeds
from poutyne.framework import Experiment
from torch.nn.functional import cross_entropy
from torch.nn.utils.rnn import pad_packed_sequence, pack_padded_sequence, pad_sequence
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
```

Now, let's create a single (i.e. one layer) unidirectional LSTM with `input_size` and `hidden_size` of `300`. We 
will explore later on the effect of stacking more layers and of using a bidirectional approach.

> See [here](https://discuss.pytorch.org/t/could-someone-explain-batch-first-true-in-lstm/15402) the explanation why we use the `batch_first` argument.

```python
dimension = 300
num_layer = 1
bidirectional = False

lstm_network = nn.LSTM(input_size=dimension,
                       hidden_size=dimension,
                       num_layers=num_layer,
                       bidirectional=bidirectional,
                       batch_first=True)
```

## Fully-connected Layer
Since the output of the LSTM network is of dimension `300`, we will use a fully-connected layer to map it into
a space of equal dimension to that of the tag space (i.e. number of tags to predict), that is 8. 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Finally, since we want to predict the most probable tokens, we will apply the softmax function on this layer
(see [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Softmax_function) if softmax does not ring a bell).

```python
input_dim = dimension #the output of the LSTM
tag_dimension = 8

fully_connected_network = nn.Linear(input_dim, tag_dimension)
```

## Training Constants

> Now, let's set our training constants. We first specify a CUDA (GPU) device for training (using a CPU is way too long, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, let's set our training constants. We first specify a CUDA (GPU) device for training (using a CPU takes way too long, 
```

if you don't have one, you can use the Google Colab notebook). 

Secondly, we set the batch size (i.e. the number of elements to see before updating the model), the learning rate for the optimizer
and the number of epochs.

```python
device = torch.device("cuda:0")

batch_size = 128
lr = 0.1

epoch_number = 10
```

We also need to set Pythons's, NumPy's and PyTorch's seeds using the Poutyne function so that our training is (almost) reproducible.

> See [here](https://determined.ai/blog/reproducibility-in-ml/) for more explanation of why setting seed does not guarantee complete reproducibility.

```python
set_seeds(42)
```

## The Dataset

> The dataset consists of `1,010,987` complete French and English Canadian address and their associated address components tags.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The dataset consists of `1,010,987` complete French and English Canadian addresses and their associated tags.
```

Here's an example `("420 rue des Lilas Ouest, Québec, G1V 2V3", [StreetNumber, StreetName, StreetName, StreetName, 
Orientation, City, PostalCode, PostalCode])`.

Now let's download our dataset; for simplicity, the data was already split into an 80-20 train-valid and a `100,000` test set. 
Also note that the dataset was pickled for simplicity (using a Python `list`). Here is the code to download it.

```python
def download_data(saving_dir, data_type):
    """
    Function to download the dataset using data_type to specify if we want the train, valid or test.
    """

    # hardcoded url to download the pickled dataset
    root_url = "https://dot-layer.github.io/blog-external-assets/train_rnn/{}.p"

    url = root_url.format(data_type)
    r = requests.get(url)
    os.makedirs(saving_dir, exist_ok=True)

    open(os.path.join(saving_dir, f"{data_type}.p"), 'wb').write(r.content)
    
download_data('./data/', "train")
download_data('./data/', "valid")
download_data('./data/', "test")
```

> Now let's load in memory the data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's load the data in memory.
```

```python
# load the data

train_data = pickle.load(open("./data/train.p", "rb"))  # 728,789 examples
valid_data = pickle.load(open("./data/valid.p", "rb"))  # 182,198 examples
test_data = pickle.load(open("./data/test.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
```

> As we explained before, the (train) dataset is a list of `728,789` tuples where the first element is the full address, and the second is a list of the tag (the ground truth).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As we explained before, the (train) dataset is a list of `728,789` tuples where the first element is the full address, and the second is a list of tags (the ground truth).
```

```python
train_data[0:2]
```

> (the output)

![data_snapshot](data_snapshot.png)

### Vectorize the Dataset

> Since we used word embeddings as our encoded representation of the address, we need to *convert* the address into word vector. In order to do that, we will use a `vectorizer` (i.e. the process of converting word into vector). This embedding vectorizer will extract, for each word, the embedding value based on the pre-trained French fastText model.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we used word embeddings as the encoded representations of the addresses, we need to *convert* the addresses into word vectors. In order to do that, we will use a `vectorizer` (i.e. the process of converting words into vectors). This embedding vectorizer will extract, for each word, the embedding value based on the pre-trained French fastText model.
```

class LookForProgress(TextIOBase):
    def __init__(self, stdout):
        self.stdout = stdout
        self.regex = re.compile(r'([0-9]+(\.[0-9]+)?%)', re.IGNORECASE)
        
    def write(self, o):
        res = self.regex.findall(o)
        if len(res) != 0:
            print(f"\r{res[-1][0]}", end='', file=self.stdout)

class EmbeddingVectorizer:
    def __init__(self):
        """
        Embedding vectorizer
        """
        fasttext.util.download_model('fr', if_exists='ignore')
        self.embedding_model = fasttext.load_model("./cc.fr.300.bin")

    def __call__(self, address):
        """
        Convert address to embedding vectors
        :param address: The address to convert
        :return: The embeddings vectors
        """
        embeddings = []
        for word in address.split():
            embeddings.append(self.embedding_model[word])
        return embeddings
     
embedding_vectorizer = EmbeddingVectorizer()
```

We also need to apply a similar operation to the address tags (e.g. StreeNumber, StreetName). 
This time, however, the `vectorizer` needs to convert the tags into categorical values (e.g. StreetNumber -> 0). 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

For simplicity, we will use a `DatasetVectorizer` class that will apply the vectorizing process using both 

> the embedding and the address vectorize process that we just describe.

Reviewer 2: address vectorize process, qqchose de wrong avec ça non?
```suggestion
the embedding and the address vectorize process that we've just described.
```

```  

Now, let's vectorize our dataset.

```python
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(train_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(valid_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(test_data)
```

```python
train_data[0]
```

> Here a example after the vectorizing process

```
([array([ 5.30934185e-02, -6.72420338e-02,  8.96735638e-02, -3.26771051e-01,
         -4.42410737e-01, -1.32014668e-02,  1.50324404e-01, -2.50251926e-02,
          1.24011010e-01, -1.68488681e-01,  4.80616689e-02, -5.40233105e-02,
          1.21191796e-02,  3.89859192e-02,  1.25505164e-01, -1.40419468e-01,
         -2.62053646e-02,  1.01731330e-01, 
         ...
         -5.71550950e-02, -3.92134525e-02,  4.85491045e-02,  4.82993454e-01,
          3.35614271e-02, -5.97143888e-01, -9.82549414e-02,  8.23293403e-02],
        dtype=float32), #dimension of 300 # first word
        ... 
        # word N of the sequence
        array([-6.28125593e-02, -1.72182580e-03,  1.27990674e-02,  7.47001171e-02,
        ...
        3.74843590e-02],
        dtype=float32)],
    
 #second element of the tuple
 [0, 1, 1, 1, 3, 4, 5, 5] #the ground truth tag)
```

### DataLoader
> We use a first trick, ``padding``.

> Now, since the addresses are not all of the same size, it is impossible to batch them together; recall that all tensor elements must have the same lengths. But there is a trick, padding!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now, because the addresses are not all of the same size, it is impossible to batch them together; recall that all tensor elements must have the same lengths. But there is a trick, padding!
```

The idea is simple. We add *empty* tokens at the end of each sequence up to the longest one in the batch. For the word vectors, we add vectors of 0 as padding. For the tag indices, we pad with -100's. We do so because the [cross-entropy loss](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html#torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss) and the accuracy metric both ignore targets with values of -100.

> To do this padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, that process will be done. One thing to keep in mind when treating padded sequences is that their (original) length will be required to unpack them later on (since we also pack them), in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).

Reviewer 2: Je trouve qu'il y a quelque chose de bizarer dans la première phrase.

Author: ```suggestion
To do the padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, the process will be done by the `DataLoader`. One thing to keep in mind when treating padded sequences is that their (original) length will be required to unpack them later on (since we also pack them), in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).
```

Author: I've pushed a modification for the first paragraph too.

    """

    # This gets us two lists of tensors and a list of integer. 
    # Each tensor in the first list is a sequence of word vectors.
    # Each tensor in the second list is a sequence of tag indices.
    # The list of integer consist of the lengths of the sequences in order.
    sequences_vectors, sequences_labels, lengths = zip(*[
        (torch.FloatTensor(seq_vectors), torch.LongTensor(labels), len(seq_vectors)) 
         for (seq_vectors, labels) in sorted(batch, key=lambda x: len(x[0]), reverse=True)
    ])

    lengths = torch.LongTensor(lengths)

    padded_sequences_vectors = pad_sequence(sequences_vectors, batch_first=True, padding_value=0)

    padded_sequences_labels = pad_sequence(sequences_labels, batch_first=True, padding_value=-100)

    return (padded_sequences_vectors, lengths), padded_sequences_labels
```

```python
train_loader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=batch_size, shuffle=True, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
valid_loader = DataLoader(valid_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
```

## Full Network
> We use a second trick, ``packing``.

> Since our sequences are of variable lengths and that we want to be as efficient as possible when packing them, we cannot use the [PyTorch `nn.Sequential`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Sequential.html) class to define our model. Instead, we define the forward pass so that it use packed sequences (again, you can read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since our sequences are of variable lengths and that we want to be as efficient as possible when packing them, we cannot use the [PyTorch `nn.Sequential`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Sequential.html) class to define our model. Instead, we define the forward pass so that it uses packed sequences (again, you can read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).
```

```python

> class FullNetWork(nn.Module):

Reviewer 4: I would suggest `Network` instead of `NetWork`, except if the capitalization was specially researched. Or even better, be specific: 
```suggestion
class RecurrentNet(nn.Module):
```

    def __init__(self, lstm_network, fully_connected_network):
        super().__init__()
        self.hidden_state = None
        
        self.lstm_network = lstm_network
        self.fully_connected_network = fully_connected_network
        
    def forward(self, padded_sequences_vectors, lengths):
        """

>             Defines the computation performed at every call.

Reviewer 4: Please document the dimensions (a.k.a. shape, size) of the inputs and outputs.

Author: db2630a

        """
        total_length = padded_sequences_vectors.shape[1]

>         pack_padded_sequences_vectors = pack_padded_sequence(padded_sequences_vectors, lengths, batch_first=True)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        pack_padded_sequences_vectors = pack_padded_sequence(padded_sequences_vectors, lengths.cpu(), batch_first=True)
```
This is necessary in the new PyTorch version.

        lstm_out, self.hidden_state = self.lstm_network(pack_padded_sequences_vectors)

>         lstm_out, _ = pad_packed_sequence(lstm_out, batch_first=True, total_length=total_length)

Reviewer 4: Dimension comments would help here, and before and after the transpose below as well. See the function `LSTM_RNN` as an example here: 
https://github.com/guillaume-chevalier/LSTM-Human-Activity-Recognition

Author: db2630a

        tag_space = self.fully_connected_network(lstm_out)
        return tag_space.transpose(-1, 1) # we need to transpose since it's a sequence

full_network = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)
```

## Summary

> So we have created an LSTM network (`lstm_network`) and a fully connected network (`fully_connected_network`), and we use both

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have created an LSTM network (`lstm_network`) and a fully connected network (`fully_connected_network`), and we use both
```

components in the full network. The full network makes use of padded-packed sequences, 
so we created the `pad_collate_fn` function to process the necessary work within the `DataLoader`. Finally, 

> we will load the data using the vectorizer (within the `DataLoader` using the `pad_collate` function). This means that the addresses will be represented by word embeddings. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we load the data using the vectorizer (within the `DataLoader` using the `pad_collate` function). This means that the addresses will be represented by word embeddings. 
```

Also, the address components will be converted into categorical value (from 0 to 7).

## The Training

Now that we have all the components for the network, let's define our optimizer (Stochastic Gradient Descent) 
([SGD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_gradient_descent)).

```python
optimizer = optim.SGD(full_network.parameters(), lr)
```

### Poutyne Experiment

> > Disclaimer that David is a dev on Poutyne, so we will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Disclaimer: David is a dev on Poutyne, so we will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).
```

Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automatically logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set
the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training.

```python
exp = Experiment("./", full_network, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
```

> Using our experiment, we can now launch the training as simple as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using our experiment, we can now launch the training as simply as
```

```python
exp.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```
It will take around 6 minutes per epochs, so around an hour for the complete training.

### Results
The next figure shows the loss and the accuracy during our training (blue) and during our validation (orange) steps.
After 10 epochs, we obtain a validation loss and accuracy of `0.01981` and `99.54701` respectively, which is pretty
good for a first model. Also, we can see that our model did not seem to have overfitted.

![loss_acc](graph/training_graph.png)

## Bigger model

> It seems like our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It seems that our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a
```

bidirectional approach (bidirectional LSTM). What it means is that instead of _simply_ viewing the sequence from the start to the end, we
also train the model to see the sequence from the end to the start. It's important to state that the two directions are
not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather the information from both directions into the 
fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both directions.

> Instead of using only one layer, let's use a bidirectional bi-LSTM, which means that we use two layers of hidden state for each direction.

Reviewer 2: Le bi- fait références aux deux couches right?

Author: exactement

So, let's create the new LSTM and fully connected network.

```python
dimension = 300
num_layer = 2
bidirectional = True

lstm_network = nn.LSTM(input_size=dimension,
                       hidden_size=dimension,
                       num_layers=num_layer,
                       bidirectional=bidirectional,
                       batch_first=True)

> input_dim = dimension * 2 #since bidirectional

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
input_dim = dimension * (2 * int(bidirectional))  # since bidirectional
```

Author: The idea is better, but since we have a specific constructor for the bidirectional, I don't think this is necessary. In a unified one, it would be, but in this specific case, I don't think it's.

fully_connected_network = nn.Linear(input_dim, tag_dimension)

full_network_bi_lstm = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)
```
 
### Training
 
```python
exp_bi_lstm = Experiment("./", full_network_bi_lstm, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
exp_bi_lstm.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```

### Results
Here are our validation results for the last epoch of the larger model. On the validation dataset,
we can see that we obtain a marginal gain of around `0.3` for the accuracy over the previous one. Not much of an improvement.

|   Model  | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:--------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |    0.0050          |
| Accuracy |    99.8594         |

But now that we have our two trained models, let's use the test set as a final and **unique** step for evaluating their performance.

```python
exp.test(test_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(test_loader)
```

> The next table presents the results of the bi-LSTM with two layers and the previous model (LSTM with one layer).

Reviewer 2: Ici bi- fait référence à bidirectional.

Author: Mon erreur

Author: Fixed aussi dans les tableaux.

|   Model  | LSTM one layer | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:--------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |     0.0152     |    **0.0050**      |
| Accuracy |     99.5758    |    **99.8550**     |

We see similar validation results for both models. Also, we still see a little improvement in accuracy and total loss for the larger model. Considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can
argue that it's only a matter of seed. To test the robustness of our approach, we could train our model multiple times
using different seeds and report the mean and standard deviation of each metric over all experiments rather than the result of a single training. Let's try something else. 

### Zero Shot Evaluation

> Since we have at our disposition other country addresses, let's see if our model has really learned a typical address sequence

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since we have at our disposition addresses from other countries, let's see if our model has really learned a typical address sequence
```

> or if it has simply learned all the cases (know as memorization).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
or if it has simply *memorized* all the training examples.
```

> We will test our model on three different types of datasets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will test our model on three different types of dataset
```

a test phase, meaning no training step.

First, let's download and vectorize all the needed datasets.

```python
download_data('./data/', "us")
download_data('./data/', "gb")
download_data('./data/', "ru")
download_data('./data/', "mx")

us_data = pickle.load(open("./data/us.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
gb_data = pickle.load(open("./data/gb.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
ru_data = pickle.load(open("./data/ru.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
mx_data = pickle.load(open("./data/mx.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples

dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(us_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(gb_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(ru_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(mx_data)
```

##### First Test

Now let's test for the United States of America and United Kingdom.

```python
us_loader = DataLoader(us_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(us_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(us_loader)

gb_loader = DataLoader(gb_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(gb_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(gb_loader)
```

The next table presents the results of both models for both countries. We obtain

> better results for the two countries using the bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that considering that their structures are similar. Also, the

Reviewer 2: Deuxième phrase il manque un bout. Peut-être ma faut :/

> better results for the two countries using the bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that considering that their structures are similar. Also, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
better results for the two countries using the bi-LSTM (around 8% better), which is interesting to see considering that their structures are similar. Also, the
```

presence of the same language as in the training dataset (i.e. English), we obtain poorer results than before. That situation

> is mostly due to the postal code format is not similar. For the US, it is 5 digits, and for the UK it is similar to Canada, but it is not always a letter followed by a number, and it is not always 6 characters. It's *normal* for a model to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is mostly due to the fact that the postal code formats are not the same. For the US, it is 5 digits, and for the UK it is similar to that of Canada, but it is not always a letter followed by a number, and it is not always 6 characters. It's *normal* for a model to
```

> have difficulty is that kind of new pattern, but he has still achieved good results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
have difficulty when faced with new patterns. All in all, we can say that our model has achieved good results.
```

| Model (Country) | LSTM one layer | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:---------------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|    Loss (US)    |     0.6176     |       **0.3078**   |
|  Accuracy (US)  |     84.7396    |       **91.8220**  |
|    Loss (UK)    |     0.4368     |       **0.1571**   |
|  Accuracy (UK)  |     86.2543    |       **95.6840**  |

##### The Second and Third Test

Now let's tests for Russia and Mexico.

```python
ru_loader = DataLoader(ru_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(ru_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(ru_loader)

mx_loader = DataLoader(mx_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(mx_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(mx_loader)
```

> The next table presents the results of both the model for both the country tested. We first see that the first test 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The next table presents the results of both models for the two countries tested. We first see that the first test 
```

> (RU) gives poorer results than Mexico, even if the second one is a different structure and language. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(RU) gives poorer results than those for Mexican addresses, even if these latter are written in a different structure and language. 
```

> This situation could be explained by both languages' language roots; Spanish is closer to French than Russia. 

Reviewer 2: languages' language..? le deuxième est de trop? ou on veut dire linguistic? de trop je pense. 
```suggestion
This situation could be explained by both languages' roots; Spanish is closer to French than Russian is. 
```

> But an interesting thing is that even in a *difficult* annotation context, both the model perform relatively well. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An interesting thing is that even in a *difficult* annotation context, both models perform relatively well. 
```

> It means that our models seem to have really learned the *logic* of an address sequence. It could also mean that if 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It suggests that our models have really learned the *logic* of an address sequence. It could also mean that if 
```

> we train our model longer, maybe we could improve our results. But, other improvements will be discussed in the next summary section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we train our model longer, we could potentially improve our results. Other modifications that could improve our models are discussed in the next and final section.
```

| Model (Country) | LSTM one layer | Bi-LSTM two layers |
|:---------------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|    Loss (RU)    |   **2.5181**   |       4.6118       |
|  Accuracy (RU)  |   **48.9820**  |       47.3185      |
|    Loss (MX)    |     2.6786     |     **1.7147**     |
|  Accuracy (MX)  |     50.2013    |     **63.5317**    |

### Summary

> In summary, we found that using a Bi-LSTM with two layers seems to perform better on countries' addresses not seen during training. Still, the results are not as good as those of Canada (training dataset). A solution to this problem could be to train a model using all the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In summary, we found that using a bi-LSTM with two layers seems to perform better on countries' addresses not seen during training. Still, the results are not as good as those of Canada (training dataset). A solution to this problem could be to train a model using all the
```

> possible data in the world. This approach was used by [Libpostal](https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal) which trained a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data from all over the world. This approach was used by [Libpostal](https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal), which trained a 
```

> CRF over an impressive near `100` million address (yes, **100 million**). The data is publicly available if you want to explore this avenue next.

Reviewer 2: CRF?

> We also explored that the language has a negative impact on the results since we use monolingual word embeddings (i.e. French), 

Reviewer 2: Ce serait bien de clarifier cette phrase.
```suggestion
We also explored the idea that the language has a negative impact on the results, since we use monolingual word embeddings (i.e. French), 
```

which is *normal* considering that they were trained for a specific language. A possible solution to that problem is the use of subword embedding composed of sub-division of a word instead of the complete one. For example, a two characters window embeddings of `H1A1` would be the aggregate embeddings of the subword `H1`, `1A` and `A1`. 

> Alert of self-promotion of our work here
We've personally explored this avenue in an article using [subword embedding for address parsing](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.16152).  

That being said, our model still performed well on the Canadian dataset, and one can simply train simpler LSTM model using

> country data to obtain the best results possible with the simpler model as possible. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
country data to obtain the best results possible with a model as simple as possible. 
```

---
title: Training a Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) using PyTorch
author: David Beauchemin and Marouane Yassine
date: '2020-08-18'
slug: machine learning
type: post
categories: ["python", "machine learning", "RNN", "PyTorch", "Poutyne", "LSTM", "Address parsing"]
tags: []
description: "Train a RNN for address parsing"
featured: "we-mastered-the-art-of-programming-cover.jpeg"
featuredpath: "img/headers/"
---

> > In this article, we will train an RNN, or more precisely, an LSTM, to predict the sequence of tags associated with a 

Reviewer: I think both can be said but "an" seems a bit more popular according to [Google Ngrams](https://books.google.com/ngrams/graph?content=an+RNN%2Ca+RNN%2Ca+LSTM%2C+an+LSTM&year_start=1800&year_end=2019&corpus=26&smoothing=3&direct_url=t1%3B%2Can%20RNN%3B%2Cc0%3B.t1%3B%2Ca%20RNN%3B%2Cc0%3B.t1%3B%2Ca%20LSTM%3B%2Cc0%3B.t1%3B%2Can%20LSTM%3B%2Cc0).

> > In this article, we will train an RNN, or more precisely, an LSTM, to predict the sequence of tags associated with a 

Reviewer 2: I've looked it up recently and I think "an" is the good one. Reading the sentence, we would say RNN (and not Recurrent Neural Network), so that we treat R as if it was written "arr", and so we use "an" because it starts with a vowels. In other words, for acronyms, we should focus on how it sounds and not what the the first letter is.

> > In this article, we will train an RNN, or more precisely, an LSTM, to predict the sequence of tags associated with a 

Reviewer 3: Good enough for me. My interpretation was based on the long version, but this makes much sense.

Btw, didn't know about Google Ngrams, such a nice tool !

    
download_data('./data/', "train")
download_data('./data/', "valid")
download_data('./data/', "test")
```

Now let's load the data in memory.

```python
# load the data

train_data = pickle.load(open("./data/train.p", "rb"))  # 728,789 examples
valid_data = pickle.load(open("./data/valid.p", "rb"))  # 182,198 examples
test_data = pickle.load(open("./data/test.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
```

As explained before, the (train) dataset is a list of `728,789` tuples where the first element is the full address, and the second is a list of tags (the ground truth).

```python
train_data[0:2]
```

> (the output)

![data_snapshot](data_snapshot.png)

### Vectorize the Dataset

Since we used word embeddings as the encoded representations of the addresses, we need to *convert* the addresses into the corresponding word vectors. In order to do that, we will use a `vectorizer` (i.e. the process of converting words into vectors). This embedding vectorizer will extract, for each word, the embedding value based on the pre-trained French fastText model.

> It takes some time to download the first time
```python
# We use this class so that the download templating of the fastText

> # script be not buggy as hell in notebooks.

Reviewer 3: The "buggy as hell" part should not be in the blog. See alternative above

        dtype=float32), #dimension of 300 # first word
        ... 
        # word N of the sequence
        array([-6.28125593e-02, -1.72182580e-03,  1.27990674e-02,  7.47001171e-02,
        ...
        3.74843590e-02],
        dtype=float32)],
    
 #second element of the tuple
 [0, 1, 1, 1, 3, 4, 5, 5] #the ground truth tag)
```

### DataLoader
> We use a first trick, ``padding``.

Now, because the addresses are not all of the same size, it is impossible to batch them together; recall that all tensor elements must have the same lengths. But there is a trick, padding!

The idea is simple; we add *empty* tokens at the end of each sequence until they reach the length of the longest one in the batch. For example, if we have three sequences of length ${1, 3, 5}$, padding will add *empty* tokens to the first two, 4 for the first and 2 for the second.

For the word vectors, we add vectors of 0 as padding. For the tag indices, we pad with -100's. We do so because the [cross-entropy loss](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss.html#torch.nn.CrossEntropyLoss) and the accuracy metric both ignore targets with values of -100.

> To do the padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, the process will be done by the `DataLoader`. One thing to keep in mind when treating padded sequences is that their (original) length will be required to unpack them later on (since we also pack them), in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).

Reviewer 3: ", and on running time, the process will be done by the `DataLoader`"

Not quite sure what is the added value of this part. What do you want to say ?

> To do the padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, the process will be done by the `DataLoader`. One thing to keep in mind when treating padded sequences is that their (original) length will be required to unpack them later on (since we also pack them), in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To do the padding, we use the `collate_fn` argument of the [PyTorch `DataLoader`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/data.html#torch.utils.data.DataLoader), and on running time, the process will be done by the `DataLoader`. One thing to keep in mind when treating padded sequences is that their original length will be required to unpad them later on in the forward pass. That way, we can pad and pack the sequence to minimize the training time (read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) on why we pack sequences).
```
Typos.
Also, I don't know why we would speak of unpacking here: the concept of packing here is yet to be talked about and we only need the original lengths for the unpadding if I am correct (might be wrong tbh) ?

```python
def pad_collate_fn(batch):
    """
    The collate_fn that can add padding to the sequences so all can have 
    the same length as the longest one.

    Args:
        batch (List[List, List]): The batch data, where the first element 
        of the tuple is the word idx and the second element are the target 
        label.

    Returns:
        A tuple (x, y). The element x is a tuple containing (1) a tensor of padded 

>         word vectors and (2) their respective lengths of the sequences. The element 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        word vectors and (2) their respective original sequence lengths. The element 
```

    """

    # This gets us two lists of tensors and a list of integer. 
    # Each tensor in the first list is a sequence of word vectors.
    # Each tensor in the second list is a sequence of tag indices.
    # The list of integer consist of the lengths of the sequences in order.
    sequences_vectors, sequences_labels, lengths = zip(*[
        (torch.FloatTensor(seq_vectors), torch.LongTensor(labels), len(seq_vectors)) 
         for (seq_vectors, labels) in sorted(batch, key=lambda x: len(x[0]), reverse=True)
    ])

    lengths = torch.LongTensor(lengths)

    padded_sequences_vectors = pad_sequence(sequences_vectors, batch_first=True, padding_value=0)

    padded_sequences_labels = pad_sequence(sequences_labels, batch_first=True, padding_value=-100)

    return (padded_sequences_vectors, lengths), padded_sequences_labels
```

```python
train_loader = DataLoader(train_data, batch_size=batch_size, shuffle=True, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
valid_loader = DataLoader(valid_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
test_loader = DataLoader(test_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
```

## Full Network
> We use a second trick, ``packing``.

> Since our sequences are of variable lengths and that we want to be as efficient as possible when packing them, we cannot use the [PyTorch `nn.Sequential`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Sequential.html) class to define our model. Instead, we define the forward pass so that it uses packed sequences (again, you can read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) of why we pack sequences).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since our sequences are of variable lengths and that we want to be as efficient as possible when packing them, we cannot use the [PyTorch `nn.Sequential`](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/generated/torch.nn.Sequential.html) class to define our model. Instead, we define the forward pass so that it uses packed sequences (again, you can read [this good explanation](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51030782/why-do-we-pack-the-sequences-in-pytorch) on why we pack sequences).
```

class RecurrentNet(nn.Module):
    def __init__(self, lstm_network, fully_connected_network):
        super().__init__()
        self.hidden_state = None
        
        self.lstm_network = lstm_network
        self.fully_connected_network = fully_connected_network
        
    def forward(self, padded_sequences_vectors, lengths):
        """
            Defines the computation performed at every call.

            Shapes:
                padded_sequences_vectors: batch_size * longest_sequence_length (padding), 300
                lengths: batch_size

        """
        total_length = padded_sequences_vectors.shape[1]
        pack_padded_sequences_vectors = pack_padded_sequence(padded_sequences_vectors, lengths.cpu(), batch_first=True)

        lstm_out, self.hidden_state = self.lstm_network(pack_padded_sequences_vectors)
        lstm_out, _ = pad_packed_sequence(lstm_out, batch_first=True, total_length=total_length)

        tag_space = self.fully_connected_network(lstm_out) # shape: batch_size * longest_sequence_length, 8 (tag space)
        return tag_space.transpose(-1, 1) # we need to transpose since it's a sequence # shape: batch_size * 8, longest_sequence_length

> full_network = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)

Reviewer 3: The network class is named RecurrentNet here.
The FullNetWork only appears in the Notebook.
Would keep FullNetwork name, but remove the capital W.

```

## Summary

We have created an LSTM network (`lstm_network`) and a fully connected network (`fully_connected_network`), and we use both
components in the full network. The full network makes use of padded-packed sequences, 

> so we created the `pad_collate_fn` function to process the necessary work within the `DataLoader`. Finally, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
so we created the `pad_collate_fn` function to do the necessary work within the `DataLoader`. Finally, 
```

we will load the data using the vectorizer (within the `DataLoader` using the `pad_collate` function). This means that the addresses will be represented by word embeddings. 
Also, the address components will be converted into categorical value (from 0 to 7).

## The Training

> Now that we have all the components for the network, let's define our optimizer (Stochastic Gradient Descent) 

Reviewer 3: The wording is better in the Jupyter notebook here.

([SGD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stochastic_gradient_descent)).

```python
optimizer = optim.SGD(full_network.parameters(), lr)
```

### Poutyne Experiment

> > Disclaimer: David is a dev on Poutyne, so we will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
> Disclaimer: David is a developer on the Poutyne library, so we will present code using this framework. See the project [here](https://poutyne.org/).
```

> Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automatically logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Let's create our experiment using Poutyne for automated logging in the project root directory (`./`). We will also set
```

the loss function and a batch metric (accuracy) to monitor the training.

```python
exp = Experiment("./", full_network, device=device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
```

Using our experiment, we can now launch the training as simply as

```python
exp.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```
It will take around 6 minutes per epochs, so around an hour for the complete training.

### Results

> The next figure shows the loss and the accuracy during our training (blue) and during our validation (orange) steps.

Reviewer 3: How do you define accuracy here? Is it the word-tag accuracy or the whole address accuracy ? I guess it is word-tag accuracy, but I think whole address accuracy is actually more relevant here in the context of sequence tagging.

> After 10 epochs, we obtain a validation loss and accuracy of `0.01981` and `99.54701` respectively, which is pretty

Reviewer 3: would change "which is pretty good for a first model" to "satisfying values for a first model".

> good for a first model. Also, we can see that our model did not seem to have overfitted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
good for a first model. Also, since our training accuracy and loss closely match their respective validation values, our model does not appear to be overfitted on the training set.
```

![loss_acc](graph/training_graph.png)

## Bigger model

> It seems that our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It seems that our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTMs using a
```

bidirectional approach (bidirectional LSTM). What it means is that instead of _simply_ viewing the sequence from the start to the end, we
also train the model to see the sequence from the end to the start. It's important to state that the two directions are

> not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather the information from both directions into the 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
not shared, meaning that the model _sees_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but gathers the information from both directions into the 
```

fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both directions.

Instead of using only one layer, let's use a bidirectional bi-LSTM, which means that we use two layers of hidden state for each direction.

So, let's create the new LSTM and fully connected network.

```python
dimension = 300
num_layer = 2
bidirectional = True

lstm_network = nn.LSTM(input_size=dimension,
                       hidden_size=dimension,
                       num_layers=num_layer,
                       bidirectional=bidirectional,
                       batch_first=True)

input_dim = dimension * 2 #since bidirectional

fully_connected_network = nn.Linear(input_dim, tag_dimension)

full_network_bi_lstm = FullNetWork(lstm_network, fully_connected_network)
```
 
### Training
 
```python
exp_bi_lstm = Experiment("./", full_network_bi_lstm, device=cuda_device, optimizer=optimizer,
                 loss_function=cross_entropy, batch_metrics=["acc"])
exp_bi_lstm.train(train_loader, valid_generator=valid_loader, epochs=epoch_number)
```

### Results
Here are our validation results for the last epoch of the larger model. On the validation dataset,

> we can see that we obtain a marginal gain of around `0.3` for the accuracy over the previous one. Not much of an improvement.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
we can see that we obtain a marginal gain of around `0.3` % for the accuracy over our previous simpler model. This is only a slight improvement.
```

|   Model  | Bidirectional bi-LSTM |
|:--------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |    0.0050          |
| Accuracy |    99.8594         |

But now that we have our two trained models, let's use the test set as a final and **unique** step for evaluating their performance.

```python
exp.test(test_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(test_loader)
```

The next table presents the results of the bidirectional bi-LSTM with two layers and the previous model (LSTM with one layer).

|   Model  | LSTM one layer | Bidirectional bi-LSTM |
|:--------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|   Loss   |     0.0152     |    **0.0050**      |
| Accuracy |     99.5758    |    **99.8550**     |

> We see similar validation results for both models. Also, we still see a little improvement in accuracy and total loss for the larger model. Considering that we only improved by around 0.3, one can

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We see similar validation results for both models. Also, we still see a little improvement in accuracy and total loss for the larger model. Considering that we only improved by around `0.3` %, one can
```

> argue that it's only a matter of seed. To test the robustness of our approach, we could train our model multiple times

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
argue that the difference is only due to training variance (mostly due to our random sampling of training batches). To test the robustness of our approach, we could train our model multiple times
```

> using different seeds and report the mean and standard deviation of each metric over all experiments rather than the result of a single training. Let's try something else. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
using different random seeds and report the mean and standard deviation of each metric over all experiments rather than the result of a single training. Let's try something else. 
```

> ### Zero Shot Evaluation

Reviewer 3: The point of languages has to be addressed. You say you are training with french pre-trained embeddings, yet later refer to your training set as in English.

How do the embeddings predict other languages than French, say Russian and mexican ? The model is trained with respect to the french embeddings' intrinsic geometry, you should address that most of the errors on these languages can be attributed to the embeddings losing much of their meaning because of input language disparity.

Since we have at our disposition addresses from other countries, let's see if our model has really learned a typical address sequence
or if it has simply *memorized* all the training examples.

We will test our model on three different types of dataset

   - first, on addresses with the exact same structure 
    as in our training dataset: addresses from the United States of America (US) and the United Kingdom (UK)
   - secondly, on addresses with the exact same structure as those in our training dataset **but** 
    written in a totally different language: addresses from Russia (RU)
   - finally, on addresses that exhibit a different structure **and** that are written in a different language: addresses from Mexico (MX).

> For each test, we will use a dataset of `100,000` examples in total, and we will evaluate using the best epoch of our two models (i.e. last epoch for both of them). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For each test, we will use a dataset of `100,000` examples in total, and we will evaluate using the best version of our two models (i.e. after the last epoch of training). 
```

a test phase, meaning no training step.

First, let's download and vectorize all the needed datasets.

```python
download_data('./data/', "us")
download_data('./data/', "gb")
download_data('./data/', "ru")
download_data('./data/', "mx")

us_data = pickle.load(open("./data/us.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
gb_data = pickle.load(open("./data/gb.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
ru_data = pickle.load(open("./data/ru.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples
mx_data = pickle.load(open("./data/mx.p", "rb"))  # 100,000 examples

dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(us_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(gb_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(ru_data)
dataset_vectorizer.vectorize(mx_data)
```

##### First Test

Now let's test for the United States of America and United Kingdom.

```python
us_loader = DataLoader(us_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(us_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(us_loader)

gb_loader = DataLoader(gb_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(gb_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(gb_loader)
```

The next table presents the results of both models for both countries. We obtain

> better results for the two countries using the bidirectional bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that considering that their structures are similar to those in the training dataset (Canada), we obtain near as good results as those observed during training. Meaning that our model seems to have learned to recognize the structure of an address. Also, the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
better results for the two countries using the bidirectional bi-LSTM (around 8% better). It's interesting to see that, considering address structures are similar to those in the training dataset (Canada), we obtain near as good results as those observed during training. This suggests that our model seems to have learned to recognize the structure of an address. Also, the
```

> presence of the same language as in the training dataset (i.e. English), we obtain poorer results than before. That situation

Reviewer 3: Not sure what you mean with this sentence, maybe : 

Also, despite the language being the same as in the training dataset (English), we obtain poorer results.

> is mostly due to the fact that the postal code formats are not the same. For the US, it is 5 digits, and for the UK it is similar to that of Canada, but it is not always a letter followed by a number, and it is not always 6 characters. It's *normal* for a model to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is most likely due to the fact that the postal code formats are not the same. For the US, it is 5 digits, and for the UK it is similar to that of Canada, but it is not always a letter followed by a number and not always 6 characters. It is *normal* for a model to
```

have difficulty when faced with new patterns. All in all, we can say that our model has achieved good results.

| Model (Country) | LSTM one layer | Bidirectional bi-LSTM |
|:---------------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|    Loss (US)    |     0.6176     |       **0.3078**   |
|  Accuracy (US)  |     84.7396    |       **91.8220**  |
|    Loss (UK)    |     0.4368     |       **0.1571**   |
|  Accuracy (UK)  |     86.2543    |       **95.6840**  |

##### The Second and Third Test

> Now let's tests for Russia and Mexico.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Now let's test for Russia and Mexico.
```

```python
ru_loader = DataLoader(ru_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(ru_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(ru_loader)

mx_loader = DataLoader(mx_data, batch_size=batch_size, collate_fn=pad_collate_fn)
exp.test(mx_loader)
exp_bi_lstm.test(mx_loader)
```

The next table presents the results of both models for the two countries tested. We see that the first test 
(RU) gives poorer results than those for Mexican addresses, even if these latter are written in a different structure and language. 
This situation could be explained by both languages' roots; Spanish is closer to French than Russian is. 
An interesting thing is that even in a *difficult* annotation context, both models perform relatively well. 

> It suggests that our models have really learned the *logic* of an address sequence. It could also mean that if 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It suggests that our models have really learned the *logic* of an address sequence. It could also mean that, if 
```

we train our model longer, we could potentially improve our results. Other modifications that could improve our models are discussed in the next and final section.

> | Model (Country) | LSTM one layer | Bidirectional bi-LSTM |

Reviewer 3: Don't you wish to address the simpler model being better on Russian than the larger one ?

|:---------------:|:--------------:|:------------------:|
|    Loss (RU)    |   **2.5181**   |       4.6118       |
|  Accuracy (RU)  |   **48.9820**  |       47.3185      |
|    Loss (MX)    |     2.6786     |     **1.7147**     |
|  Accuracy (MX)  |     50.2013    |     **63.5317**    |

### Summary
In summary, we found that using a bidirectional bi-LSTM seems to perform better on addresses not seen during training, including those coming from other countries. Still, the results for addresses from other countries are not as good as those for Canadian addresses (training dataset). A solution to this problem could be to train a model using all the
data from all over the world. This approach was used by [Libpostal](https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal), which trained a 

> CRF over an impressive near `100` million addresses (yes, **100 million**). If you want to explore this avenue, the data is publicly available.

Reviewer 3: What is a CRF ? hyperlink could be enough

> CRF over an impressive near `100` million addresses (yes, **100 million**). If you want to explore this avenue, the data is publicly available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
CRF over an impressive near `100` million addresses (yes, **100 million**). If you want to explore this avenue, the data they used is publicly available [here](https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal).
```

> We also explored the idea that the language has a negative impact on the results, since we use monolingual word embeddings (i.e. French), 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We also explored the idea that the language disparity has a negative impact on the results, since we use monolingual word embeddings (i.e. French), 
```

> We also explored the idea that the language has a negative impact on the results, since we use monolingual word embeddings (i.e. French), 

Reviewer 3: Once again, need to address the French embeddings and the fact that you say training dataset is in English

> which is *normal* considering that they were trained for a specific language. A possible solution to that problem is the use of subword embedding composed of sub-division of a word instead of the complete one. For example, a two characters window embeddings of `H1A1` would be the aggregate embeddings of the subword `H1`, `1A` and `A1`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which is *normal* considering that they were trained for a specific language. A possible solution to that problem is the use of subword embeddings composed of sub-divisiona of a word instead of the complete one. For example, a two characters window embeddings of `H1A1` would be the aggregated embeddings of the subword `H1`, `1A` and `A1`. 
```

## Bigger model

It seems like our model performed pretty well, but just for fun, let's unleash the full potential of LSTM using a
bidirectional approach (bidirectional LSTM). What it means is that instead of _simply_ viewing the sequence from the start to the end, we
also train the model to see the sequence from the end to the start. It's important to state that the two directions are
not shared, meaning that we _see_ the sequence in one direction at the time, but we gather the information from both directions into the 
fully connected layer. That way, our model can get insight from both directions.

> Instead of using only one layer, let's use a bidirectional bi-LSTM, which means that we use two layers of hidden state for each direction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead of using only one layer, let's use a bidirectional LSTM, which means that we use two layers of hidden state for each direction.
```

Author: Non, j'avais fait une erreur, un bi-lstm signifie juste deux layers donc c'est un bidirectional bi-lstm.
